Add JaegerRemoteSampler spec (#2222)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/trace/jaeger-remote-sampler.md

# Jaeger remote sampler

> [Jaeger remote sampler](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.29/sampling/#collector-sampling-configuration) allows remotely specify sampling configuration for SDKs. The sampling is typically configured at the Jaeger or OpenTelemetry collector and SDKs actively poll for changes. The sampler uses `ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased)` or `RateLimitting` sampler. These samplers can be configured as default, per service or span name in a given service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Jaeger remote sampler](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.29/sampling/#collector-sampling-configuration) allows remotely controlling the sampling configuration for the SDKs. The sampling is typically configured at the Jaeger or OpenTelemetry collector and the SDKs actively poll for changes. The sampler uses `ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased)` or `RateLimitting` sampler under the hood. These samplers can be configured per the whole service (a.k.a. "default"), or per span name in a given service (a.k.a. "per operation").
```

Reviewer: Shouldn't rate limiting also be wrapped in parent-based?

Author: I think that is better

message RateLimitingSamplingStrategy {
  // Traces per second.
  int32 maxTracesPerSecond = 1;
}

// OperationSamplingStrategy defines sampling configuration for a given operation/span name.
message OperationSamplingStrategy {
  // Operation name is a span name.
  string operation = 1;
  // Probabilistic sampler configuration,
  ProbabilisticSamplingStrategy probabilisticSampling = 2;
}

// PerOperationSamplingStrategies defines sampling configuration for operations/span (names).
message PerOperationSamplingStrategies {
  // Default sampling probability for ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased).
  double defaultSamplingProbability = 1;
  // Default lower bound for rate limiting sampler.
  double defaultLowerBoundTracesPerSecond = 2;
  // Per operation/span (name) sampling configuration.
  repeated OperationSamplingStrategy perOperationStrategies = 3;
  // Default upper bound for rate limiting sampler.
  double defaultUpperBoundTracesPerSecond = 4;
}

// SamplingStrategyResponse defines sampling configuration for a service.
message SamplingStrategyResponse {
  // Default sampler to use - either ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased) or RateLimiting.

>   SamplingStrategyType strategyType = 1;

Reviewer: This might be confusing - is the type meant to indicate the choice of one of the samplers below? If so, why does the enum not have per-operation? I think the interpretation is a bit more convoluted.

Reviewer: github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/pull/87

  // ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased) sampler configuration.
  ProbabilisticSamplingStrategy probabilisticSampling = 2;
  // RateLimiting sampler configuration.
  RateLimitingSamplingStrategy rateLimitingSampling = 3;
  // Per operation sampling configuration.
  PerOperationSamplingStrategies operationSampling =4;
}

// SamplingStrategyParameters defines request parameters for remote sampler.
message SamplingStrategyParameters {
  // Service name.
  string serviceName = 1;
}

// SamplingManager defines service for the remote sampler.
service SamplingManager {
  rpc GetSamplingStrategy(SamplingStrategyParameters) returns (SamplingStrategyResponse) {
    option (google.api.http) = {
      post: "/api/v2/samplingStrategy"
      body: "*"
    };
  }
}
```

> ### Example configuration

Reviewer: What is the objective of having this here? This configuration's interpretation is somewhat complicated.

Author: The objective is to show how users configure the sampler on the collector.

Reviewer: But it's not part of the remote sampler configuration protocol. Sampler asks the backend "gimme strategy for my service X". There could be different implementations of how the backend decides on what to return, and this example does not really explain _how_ those decisions are made (e.g. default sampler having operations section means there are certain overlays happening in the backend).

Author: I removing it as it seems to be controversial.

  repeated OperationSamplingStrategy perOperationStrategies = 3;
  // Default upper bound for rate limiting sampler.
  double defaultUpperBoundTracesPerSecond = 4;
}

// SamplingStrategyResponse defines sampling configuration for a service.
message SamplingStrategyResponse {
  // Default sampler to use - either ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased) or ParentBased(root=RateLimiting).
  SamplingStrategyType strategyType = 1;
  // ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased) sampler configuration.
  ProbabilisticSamplingStrategy probabilisticSampling = 2;
  // RateLimiting sampler configuration.
  RateLimitingSamplingStrategy rateLimitingSampling = 3;
  // Per operation sampling configuration.
  PerOperationSamplingStrategies operationSampling =4;
}

// SamplingStrategyParameters defines request parameters for remote sampler.
message SamplingStrategyParameters {
  // Service name.
  string serviceName = 1;
}

// SamplingManager defines service for the remote sampler.
service SamplingManager {
  rpc GetSamplingStrategy(SamplingStrategyParameters) returns (SamplingStrategyResponse) {
    option (google.api.http) = {
      post: "/api/v2/samplingStrategy"
      body: "*"
    };
  }
}
```

> The full Protobuf definition can be found at [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/api_v2/sampling.proto](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto).

Reviewer: +1, I'd prefer to just link to the original proto in jaeger-idl

> The full Protobuf definition can be found at [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/api_v2/sampling.proto](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto).

Author: The comments in this repo are tailored towards OTEL vocabulary.

> The full Protobuf definition can be found at [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/api_v2/sampling.proto](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto).

Reviewer: Yes, but the only relevant part is how to interpret the strategies themselves, which we can do in plain text, e.g. "`ProbabilisticSamplingStrategy` SHOULD be implemented via `ParentBased(root=TraceIdRatioBased)` sampler"

> The full Protobuf definition can be found at [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/api_v2/sampling.proto](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto).

Author: Fair enough. 

Alternatively, we could make a copy and add it to OTEL proto, it will make it easier for SDKs to include it.

> The full Protobuf definition can be found at [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/api_v2/sampling.proto](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto).

Reviewer: BTW, I don't think we need to be mentioning `ParentBased`. For people who want that behavior, it can be composed via `ParentBased(root=JaegerRemoteSampler)`, rather than `JaegerRemoteSampler` internally having a dependency on `ParentBased`.

> The full Protobuf definition can be found at [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/api_v2/sampling.proto](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto).

Author: I think that is good point, however, we should be thinking how this will be configured in auto-instrumentation. There only sampler type and argument can be configured. 

I have added `- "parentbased_jaeger_remote": ParentBased(root=JaegerRemoteSampler)` to the SDK env variables.
